---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# How to write documentation for TruBudged

## Why?

As you might have seen, TruBudget stores all relevant documentation in the `docs` folder of the main repository.
While reading the documentation in Markdown using a dedicated markdown reader is possible and quite easy for people working in tech, user with no tech background can have a hard time reading, and navigating through the documentation. This is why the `docs` folder in this repo is linked with the [TruBudget Website](https://openkfw.github.io/trubudget-website/).
When a new TruBudged version is released, the CI has an additional step which publishes the current documentation (in the `docs` folder) on the TruBudget Website.

## What is different to standard Markdown?

The TruBudget Website is build using [Docosaurus](https://docusaurus.io/). A static website generator optimized for publishing documentation. Docosaurus supports the standard Markdown syntax, MDX and React for defining and styling pages. Although sometimes React features might come in handy, **avoid them**. While MD and MDX is partially supported by GitHub, React features are not.

### The Syntax

The TruBudget Documentation heavily uses two features from Docosaurus:

- [Admonitions](https://docusaurus.io/docs/2.0.0-beta.3/markdown-features/admonitions)
- [Autogenerated sidebar metadata](https://docusaurus.io/docs/sidebar#autogenerated-sidebar-metadatas)

**Admonitions** are used to provide extra information such as notes, tips, or to make a user conscious about the possible side effects of an operation.

**Autogenerated sidebar metadata** are used to determine the position of the document in the sidebar. This feature is mostly used when there are multiple folders in the directory.
